Q.SET1: Write down Linux commands for following statements.
 Redirect the output of  ls command to a file named outfile.  Use this as an input file 
  for remaining commands.
To select the lines in a file which has digit as one of the character in that line and redirect the output to the file named list. 
Assign execute permission to owner and remove read permission from other for an ordinary file named test by relative way.
Create an alias named rm that always deletes file interactively.
Count the currently login users to the system.


SET 1
1) Redirect the output of ls command to a file named outfile
ls > outfile
> redirects output into file
outfile stores result of ls
2) Select lines having digits and redirect output to file list
grep '[0-9]' outfile > list

Explanation:

grep searches pattern
[0-9] means any digit
matching lines stored in list
3) Assign execute permission to owner and remove read permission from others (Relative Method)
chmod u+x,o-r test

Explanation:

u+x → add execute permission to owner
o-r → remove read permission from others
4) Create alias named rm for interactive delete
alias rm='rm -i'

Explanation:

-i asks confirmation before delete
5) Count currently logged-in users
who | wc -l

Explanation:

who → shows logged users
wc -l → counts lines


Q.SET2:Write down Linux commands for following statements.
Redirect the output of  cat command to a file named outfile.  Use this as an input file 
 for remaining commands.
List all hidden files under current directory and store in “hidden” file
Assign write permission to owner and remove execute permission from other for an ordinary file named test by absolute way.
To create soft and hard link for given file
To convert lowercase to upper case of a given file
To extract 1st  and 10th  character  of a given file
To display how many times lines are repeated in a given file


SET 2
1) Redirect output of cat command to file outfile
cat > outfile

Now type data and press:

CTRL + D

to save.

2) List all hidden files and store in hidden
ls -a | grep '^.' > hidden

Explanation:

ls -a → shows hidden files
^. → files starting with dot
3) Assign write permission to owner and remove execute permission from others (Absolute Method)
chmod 602 test

Explanation:

Permission	Value
Owner = rw-	6
Group = ---	0
Others = -w-	2

(If your teacher expects only removing execute from others while keeping remaining permissions same, then relative method is safer.)

4) Create soft and hard link
Soft Link
ln -s file1 softlink
Hard Link
ln file1 hardlink
5) Convert lowercase to uppercase
tr 'a-z' 'A-Z' < outfile

To store output:

tr 'a-z' 'A-Z' < outfile > upperfile
6) Extract 1st and 10th character from file
cut -c1,10 outfile

Explanation:

-c means character position
1,10 extracts 1st and 10th character
7) Display how many times lines are repeated
sort outfile | uniq -c

Explanation:

sort sorts lines
uniq -c counts repeated lines
Important Viva Questions
Difference between soft link and hard link
Soft Link	Hard Link
Shortcut to file	Direct copy of inode
Removed if original deleted	Still works
Uses ln -s	Uses ln
Difference between relative and absolute permission
Relative	Absolute
Uses symbols	Uses numbers
Example: u+x	Example: 755
Meaning of wc -l
wc → word count
-l → line count
Meaning of grep

Used to search patterns in files.

Meaning of tr

Translate or replace characters.

Meaning of cut

Extract specific columns/characters.